---
layout: page
title: R&D
permalink: /r&d/
---

### Already published articles are available at my [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=DuCQ8goAAAAJ&hl=en) profile.

&nbsp;

### Recently Submitted Articles Under Review
1. **Md. Rakibul Hasan**, M. M. Hasan, and M. Z. Hossain, “How many mel-frequency cepstral coeffcients to be utilized in speech recognition? a study with the bengali language,” Submitted to _The Journal of Engineering -- JOE_, Jul. 2021.
2. **Md. Rakibul Hasan**, M. M. Hasan, and M. Z. Hossain, “Effect of vocal tract dynamics on neural network-based speech recognition: A bengali language-based study,” Submitted to _Intelligent Systems with Applications_, Aug. 2021.
3. F. Wu, **Md. Rakibul Hasan**, and M. Z. Hossain, “An evolutionary-based neural network for distinguishing between genuine and posed anger from observers’ pupillary responses,” Submitted to _28<sup>th</sup> International Conference on Neural Information Processing (ICONIP2021)_, Jul. 2021.
4. A. Islam, **Md. Rakibul Hasan**, M. Z. Hossain, and M. M. Hasan, “The eigenvalue distribution of hankel matrix: a tool for spectral estimation from noisy data,” Submitted to _28<sup>th</sup> International Conference on Neural Information Processing (ICONIP2021)_, Jul. 2021.
5. J. Sumaiya, A. O. Salau, and **Md. Rakibul Hasan**, "Deep neural network method for noninvasive blood glucose monitoring with live video on a smartphone," Submitted to _Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine_, Jul. 2021.

&nbsp;

### Students' Undergrad Final-Year-Design-Project I'm Co-Supervising
1. **IOT based Industrial Load Control and Safety Monitorization**  
 * Yousuf Mohammad (ID: 16310002)
 * Mehedi Hasan (ID: 16321131)
 * Shah Rukh Islam (ID: 16321133)
2. **Designing a smart helmet for detecting accident and post accident notifications**
 * Khadiza Islam Sumaiya (ID: 18121092)
 * Md. Rakib Al – Amin (ID: 18121102)
 * Tamim Hasan Turjo (ID: 18121108)
 * S.M. Kayser Mehbub Siam (ID: 18121125)
